Let's move to encryption in transit.
By the end of this section,
you will understand the difference between data at rest and data in transit.
You'll learn the different types of encryption techniques for data in
transit and determine the appropriate encryption type for a given scenario.
Where does the encrypting data in transit fit in our three-component model of security?
Prevention. What is encryption in transit?
It is the application of cryptography to
protect data that is moving from one location to another.
There are a couple of different ways to achieve this.
First is to encrypt the data before sending, for instance,
encrypt the document, that email or FTP it to someone outside of your organization.
But for this section, we're going to focus on encrypting the data while it's in motion.
Let's take a look at what makes up data at rest and data in transit.
First up, data at rest.
Data at rest is data that is not actively
moving from device to device or network to network,
such as data stored on a hard drive,
server chair, or a flash drive.
This data would be encrypted using methods like BitLocker or 7-Zip.
It is thought to be more secure as it is not traversing from one location to another.
However, it generally relies on the security of
the system it resides on depending on which encryption method is being used.
Being in a static location,
it is subject to long-term attacks such as brute-force.
Now, let's take a look at data in transit.
Data in transit or data in motion is
data that is actively moving from one location to another,
such as across the Internet or through a private network.
When data is in transit,
it is susceptible to eavesdropping or man in
the middle attacks thus the requirement for encryption.
Data in transit across public connection
generally uses asymmetric encryption with a certificate authority.
If the data is traversing a private line,
it will likely use symmetric.
Although as we learned just a few moments ago,
it is not uncommon to use a combination of both.
Now, we're going to learn some of
the most common techniques for encrypting data in transit.
We'll look at HTTPS with TLS, then SSH,
followed by SFTP and FTPS,
and close it out with RDP.
Let's dig in. Up first is HTTPS.
HTTP is Hypertext Transport Protocol,
which is the protocol that allows your browser to communicate with web servers.
The S stands for secure.
In order to change HTTP,
which uses clear text,
to HTTPS, which uses ciphertext,
we add SSL or TLS.
SSL is secure socket layer which around 2000 was effectively renamed TLS,
which stands for Transport Layer Security.
You are likely running either TLS version 1.2 or
1.3 depending on which browser. How does it work?
When your browser reaches out to an HTTPS site,
it is using asymmetric cryptography.
It checks to make sure that digital certificate,
which we learned about earlier,
is authentic and issued by a certificate authority.
At that point, the rest of the TLS handshake occurs.
More on that in just a moment.
Now, asymmetric cryptographic session has
begun allowing for the fast communications we expect from the Internet.
The TLS handshake we just mentioned is the method
our traffic becomes fully encrypted when communicating with web servers.
The steps are, the client,
in this case, your Internet browser reaches out with a "Hello".
It includes the SSL, TLS version number,
the cipher suite, which is what algorithms are being used,
and a random string.
The server responds with its own "Hello",
which includes roughly the same information,
but also includes the digital certificate.
Your browser authenticates the certificate with
a trusted CA and encrypts the traffic using the server's public key.
The client sends a random string as a pre-master secret using
the public key that is decrypted by the server using the private key.
At this point, both the client and server
generates symmetric session keys using the client random,
server random, and pre-master keys.
Next up is Secure Shell or SSH.
It is to Telnet what HTTPS is to HTTP.
The initial handshake is similar to TLS with a version exchange, however,
in opposition to TLS where a digital certificate is exchanged,
at this point, a password is sent from the client to the server.
Now, there is a key exchange with a list of preferred cryptographic techniques.
Then either Diffie-Hellman or elliptical curves
encryption is started to allow the exchange of private keys.
Once private keys have been exchanged,
symmetric encryption is established.
Now, we're going to turn our attention to SFTP and FTPS,
that's Secure File Transfer Protocol and File Transfer Protocol over SSL respectively.
While we're lumping them together based on what they accomplish,
they're actually quite different.
SFTP authenticates the same as SSH,
which we just learned about.
FTPS uses the TLS encryption method we learned about in the HTTPS section.
We're closing this section out with RDP,
Remote Desktop Protocol, which is how we connect to our Windows machines.
The initial exchange is an x.224 PDU,
that's Protocol Data Unit,
which basically tells the server what security protocols the client supports.
Those protocols are typically RC4 for standard RDP or TLS for enhanced security.
The next two exchanges focus on details for channels used and encryption methods, etc.
Now the client sends a randomized string encrypted with the server's public key.
It is at this point, subsequent traffic is encrypted.